Import and Export docs (#17)
anz-bank/sysl-website: docs/cmd-export.md

sidebar_label: Export
---

## Summary

> `sysl export` command converts Sysl files to other formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sysl export` command converts `.sysl` files to other formats.
```

## Usage

```
sysl export [<flags>] <MODULE>
```

Currently, the supported formats include:

> - OpenAPI 3.0 `openapi`
> - Swagger 2.0 `swagger`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- OpenAPI 2.0 (fka Swagger): `swagger`
- OpenAPI 3.0: `openapi`
```

## Required inputs

- `<MODULE>` input file without `.sysl` extension and with leading `/`. For example `/project_dir/my_models/model`. Combine with `--root` if needed.

## Optional flags

- `-a, --app-name=APP-NAME` Name of the sysl App defined in the sysl model. If there are multiple Apps defined in the sysl model, exported file will be generated only for the given app.
- `-f, --format="swagger"` Format of export, supported options: (swagger | openapi3).
- `-o, --output="%(appname).yaml"` Output file path, supported formats: (yaml | json) and default value is `%(appname).yaml`. Note, appname is the one specified by flag `--app-name`.

[More common optional flags](optional-flags)

## Examples

### OpenAPI

Command line

```

> sysl export --format="openapi3" --output="%(appname).yaml" simple-openapi3.sysl

Author: The code has some issue, and this command `sysl export --format="openapi3" --output="simple-openapi3.yaml" simple-openapi3.sysl` will output file `simple-openapi3.SimpleOpenAPI3.yaml`. So I keep param `--output="%(appname).yaml"`.

> sysl export --format="openapi3" --output="%(appname).yaml" simple-openapi3.sysl

Author: Updated command to `sysl export --format="openapi3" --app-name="SimpleOpenAPI3" --output="simple-openapi3.yaml" simple-openapi3.sysl`, it can output file `simple-openapi3.yaml`.

```

> 

Reviewer: Input Sysl file: `simple-openapi3.sysl`

> ```jsx title="Input Sysl file - simple-openapi3.sysl"

Reviewer 2: I think you can omit `jsx`: this code is not `jsx`, but we don't have Sysl highlighting, so I'd expect you can just do something like `''' title=...`

Author: `''' title=...` can't work, it doesn't show the title.

Reviewer 2: What about `'''sysl title=...`? That should work even if sysl isn't a known language.

SimpleOpenAPI3 "SimpleOpenAPI3":
    @description =:
        | Simple demo for openapi file export

    /test:
        GET:
            | Endpoint for testing GET
            return error
            return ok <: SimpleObj

    #---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    # definitions

    !type SimpleObj:
        name <: string?:
            @json_tag = "name"

    !type SimpleObj2:
        name <: SimpleObj?:
            @json_tag = "name"
```

> 

Reviewer: Output OpenAPI3 file: `simple-openapi3.yaml`
The L67 description doesn't show in the Markdown. So does the following examples.

Author: It can't be displayed in markdown preview, this tag `'''yaml title="Output OpenAPI3 file: simple-openapi3.yaml"` is Docusaurus specified. https://v2.docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/#code-title.
You can see it in https://deploy-preview-17--vibrant-neumann-307d85.netlify.app/docs/cmd-import

```yaml title="Output OpenAPI3 file - SimpleOpenAPI3.yaml"
components:
  schemas:
    SimpleObj:
      properties:
        name:
          type: string
      type: object
    SimpleObj2:
      properties:
        name:
          $ref: '#/components/schemas/SimpleObj'
      type: object
info:
  contact: {}
  description: |
    Simple demo for openapi file export
  title: SimpleOpenAPI3
  version: ""
openapi: 3.0.0
paths:
  /test:
    get:
      description: Endpoint for testing GET
      responses:
        "200":
          content:
            application/json: {}
          description: "200"
servers:
- url: ""
```

### Swagger

Command line

```

> sysl export --format="swagger" --output="%(appname).yaml" simple-swagger.sysl

Author: Same issue as mentioned above.

> sysl export --format="swagger" --output="%(appname).yaml" simple-swagger.sysl

Author: Updated command to `sysl export --format="swagger" --output="simple-swagger.yaml" --app-name="SimpleSwagger" simple-swagger.sysl`, it can output file `simple-swagger.yaml`.

sidebar_label: Export
---

## Summary

> The Sysl export command is converting Sysl files to other formats.

Reviewer 2: Nit

```suggestion
The Sysl export command converts Sysl files to other formats.
```

## Usage

```
sysl export [<flags>] <MODULE>
```

Currently, the supported formats include:

> - OpenAPI 3.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- OpenAPI 3.0 `openapi3`
```

> - OpenAPI 2.0 `swagger`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Swagger 2.0 `swagger`
```

## Required input

> - `<MODULE>` input file without .sysl extension and with leading /, eg: /project_dir/my_models combine with --root if needed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `<MODULE>` input file without .sysl extension and with leading /. For example `/project_dir/my_models/model`. Combine with `--root` if needed.
```

## Optional flags

> - `--help` Show context-sensitive help (also try --help-long and --help-man).

Reviewer 3: `sysl --help-man` seems to provide slightly messy output that isn't very helpful for me, do we still want to mention it here or should we remove it from our docs till we can fix it?

Truncated output below:
```
.TH sysl 1 sysl v0.128.0 darwin/amd64 ""
.SH "NAME"
sysl
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.TP
\fBsysl [<flags>] <command> [<args> ...]\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
System Modelling Language Toolkit
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--help\fR
Show context-sensitive help (also try --help-long and --help-man).
.TP
\fB--version\fR
```

Author: Removed `--help-man`

- `--version` Show application version.
- `--log="warn"` Log level: [off,debug,info,warn,trace].

> - `-v, --verbose` Enable verbose logging.

Reviewer 2: Nit: as with import, these options aren't particularly relevant to these docs. Remove or place in a separate block below.

Reviewer 3: 👍 I think global flags for Sysl can probably be documented in a seperate file, and then linked to from here

Author: Moved to file `optional-flags.md`

- `--root=ROOT` Sysl root directory for input model file. If root is not found, the module directory becomes the root, but the module can not import with absolute paths (or imports must be relative).
- `-a, --app-name=APP-NAME` Name of the sysl App defined in the sysl model. If there are multiple Apps defined in the sysl model, exported file will be generated only for the given app.

> - `-f, --format="swagger"` Format of export, supported options: (swagger | openapi2 | openapi3).

Reviewer 2: Nit: `swagger | openapi2 | openapi3` doesn't reflect the "Usage" list above.

> - `-o, --output="%(appname).yaml"` Output file path, supported formats: (yaml | json) and default value is `%(appname).yaml`. Note, appname is the one specified by flag `--app-name`.

Reviewer 3: Are these formatting directives e.g `%(appname)` used by any of the other commands? If so, they can probably benefit from being documented centrally and linked to from here

Author: I checked and it is used by `export` now only.

## Examples

### OpenAPI

Command line

```
sysl export --format="openapi3" --output="%(appname).yaml" simple-openapi3.sysl
```

Source Sysl file - `simple-openapi3.sysl`

```
SimpleOpenAPI3 "SimpleOpenAPI3":
    @description =:
        | No description.

    /test:
        GET:
            | No description.
            return error
            return ok <: SimpleObj

    #---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    # definitions

    !type SimpleObj:
        name <: string?:
            @json_tag = "name"

    !type SimpleObj2:
        name <: SimpleObj?:
            @json_tag = "name"
```

> Destination OpenAPI3 file - `SimpleOpenAPI3.yaml`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Output OpenAPI3 file - `SimpleOpenAPI3.yaml`
```

      properties:
        name:
          type: string
      type: object
    SimpleObj2:
      properties:
        name:
          $ref: '#/components/schemas/SimpleObj'
      type: object
info:
  contact: {}
  description: |
    No description.
  title: SimpleOpenAPI3
  version: ""
openapi: 3.0.0
paths:
  /test:
    get:
      description: No description.
      responses:
        "200":
          content:
            application/json: {}
          description: "200"
servers:
- url: ""
```

### Swagger

Command line

```
sysl export --format="swagger" --output="%(appname).yaml" simple-swagger.sysl
```

Source Sysl file - `simple-swagger.sysl`

```
SimpleSwagger "SimpleSwagger":
    @description =:
        | No description.

    /test:
        GET:
            | No description.
            return 200 <: SimpleObj

        DELETE:
            | No description.
            return 203        

    /tests:
        GET:
            | No description.
            return set of SimpleObj        

    #---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    # definitions

    !type SimpleObj:
        name <: string?:
            @json_tag = "name"

```

> Destination Swagger file - `SimpleSwagger.yaml`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Output Swagger file - `SimpleSwagger.yaml`
```
